hey guys welcome to lingo marina today
I'm going to teach you how to get used
of overused words in English when we all
start to learn a language we start with
a very basic set of words like really
important like and all of those and as
we evolve with our language we continue
using them over and over again and this
makes our speech boring alright so today
we're gonna dig into your speech we're
gonna identify those overused words and
I'm gonna give you alternatives so you
could sound more like a native speaker
and make your speech more diversified so
if you're interested continue watching
this video this video is brought to you
by blankest
[Music]
the first word is like but remember I
told you in some of my videos to use
this word if you need some time in order
to think what's coming next I want to
like go skating so this meaning is
completely different we're gonna talk
about like that means when you like
something when you adore something and
immediately I use synonyms instead of
saying I like this you can say I admire
this I adore this which is a little
stronger than like it means that you are
really fascinated by something I adore
that you can also say cherish that means
something is important to you I cherish
you if you were talking about a person
for example you're in love with a guy or
with a girl instead of saying I like her
you can say I fancy her which is a
little British but it's also used in
American English too the next word is
important and I know we learn it year 1
when we start learning English but we
can say vital which means you cannot
live without it
my salary is vital to me because without
it I would not survive my vitals and
saving lives or you can also say
significant for example if you're
talking about a person who is important
to you like your husband you can say a
significant other and this phrase is
used a lot in the US because when you're
inviting a couple you can say please
come over and bring you a significant
other because you don't know whether
that person is married or maybe there is
still dating so you can just say
significant other it means that a person
is important to you and he's your or
she's your significant to other you live
with your significant other for some
time you could also use the word
essential for example for things that
are important for you in order to
maintain your daily routine my phone is
an essential part of my life because I
need it for my business and for calling
my parents
[Music]
new this word is used over and over
again in English new product new day new
week etc but there are some words that
you can use in step for example update
it this is an updated version of an
iPhone it has three cameras instead of
saying a new version you can st. update
it because this is actually more
accurate because you're talking about
upgrades that they brought to a new
version yeah the updated version you
know the same modern modern-day morden
world morton computer modern deodorant
for a modern man the next word is really
and we say it a lot it's really
beautiful it's really amazing I really
like it over and over and over again but
you can say it's significantly taller
for example this building is
significantly taller than the other
building significantly alright or
instead of saying I really love you you
can say I love you to the moon and back
so there are different expressions that
you can use to replace the word really I
love it
one of the best ways to diversify your
speech is to read as much as you can and
listen to as many audiobooks as you can
because if you're reading a book the
author wouldn't use good see as like all
the time he would use other words
because people when they're writing with
their professionals they do their best
and today this video is sponsored by an
app that lets you read books really fast
they're called blinkers and you can read
or listen to any book in fifteen minutes
which is amazing in our modern world
when I always have like a list of 20
books that I want to read and sometimes
it takes me months to complete one book
but with Lincoln's app you get the most
important thoughts from one particular
book and you don't have to spend weeks
reading the whole manuscript this is
what their app looks like I'm currently
reading money by Tony Robbins because I
started the actual book and it's been
three weeks because there is so much I
wants a useless information there's just
so much information around the main
concept so I just ended up reading it on
blankets they have different categories
they help you navigate and they also
have curated lists like for example New
York Times bestsellers so if you're
looking for something that you want to
read right now you can just use one of
their lists the first 100 people who use
my link below are gonna get seven days
completely for free this is your chance
to read in English and read the most
amazing content and then if you decide
to continue with the full membership you
get 25% off remember you get 7 days for
free you can cancel any time and enjoy
amazing content your favorite and when
you're writing a personal statement or a
motivational letter or an email first of
all it's not really grammatically
correct to start your sentence with and
normally people would start with a word
like moreover in addition to what I said
furthermore like all of these words make
your speech more diversified and if
you're taking a TOEFL exam if you're
taking an IELTS exam if you're doing
academic writing people really pay
attention to it and I know that in TOEFL
and IELTS if you don't use enough of
those words if you keep using ant
over in Oregon they would actually
reduce your grade so please make sure
that and is replaced by more over in
addition to furthermore I'd like to add
that etc and please don't start your
sentence with aunt or over she saw your
uncle Claudius with him interesting this
word is also really widely used and can
be replaced with a lot of words like
you'd say this is cool
instead of saying this is interesting
you can say this is mesmerising this
play was mesmerizing I was fascinated by
it instead of saying this buddy was
interesting she's saying it was
mesmerizing of course you can say that
but we're learning more vocabulary here
so you can by the way if you're writing
this down you're doing a totally amazing
job don't forget to tag me on Instagram
when you're doing this because I love
watching your stories
I'm lingual Marina on Instagram and a
lot of you guys ask me how to learn new
vocabulary this is your way to learn it
you take one word that you use over and
over again you write down synonyms to
this word may be using my video may be
using your own research and then you try
to replace it in your speech three or
four times and then this is how your
brain is gonna learn how to use
different words good some people would
consider this compliment as average like
this is a good option might sound like
this is an average option so if you want
to really tell somebody that you're
impressed by their results don't say
good results say amazing results say
fascinating results say mesmerizing
results say impressive results so a lot
of words that are a lot stronger than
good because good is somewhere here
amazing it's how we're here
fascinating somewhere here I'm gonna
still you know a little lower very nice
very impressive
very smart now if you're learning a
British version of English smart is when
somebody is dressed up
you look smart today you look smart
today that means you're wearing a dress
you're wearing your makeup you've done
your hair and this is the British
version American version of smart is
clever people say this word a lot he's a
smart person what is smart doggie oh my
god so they use smart all the time but
you can replace it with other words yes
you can say clever you can say brilliant
you can say quick with it you can say
wise you can say genius
use these words instead of smart yes
explain again this word is really basic
but what I like to say in my speech when
somebody talks about something and I
didn't really understand I tell them
could you please elaborate on that a
little more elaborate on something
instead of saying could you explain this
once again I think could you elaborate
on this a little more this sounds really
American Americans love this expression
could you elaborate Ramon you can also
say could you clarify that for me okay
okay he could you clarify with an
example the next word that we use a lot
is the thing I like this thing a lot
this is a really interesting thing
instead of thing you can say concept but
really you need to be in the context and
see which other synonyms so you can use
instead of just saying thing because
thing is again it sounds a little
awkward because that means that you
don't really maybe you don't understand
the concept because you keep saying
thing so instead of saying thing think
of other synonyms to a concept that
you're replacing yes
interesting concept see to see something
oh my god there is so many synonyms to
this word and I think you have to learn
all of them because if you're reading an
english-language text you're gonna see a
lot of those words for example glimpse
at someone I kind of got this arcane
glimpse of the universe or stare when I
stare it means I keep looking at you all
the time why are you staring at me
observe I'm observing something I'm
observing San Francisco from my window
oh no I'm just observing the class carry
on notice you notice something I've
noticed something notice me notice me
notice me so there are a lot of synonyms
to replace see another word is also you
remember we talked about and so this is
kind of the same problem especially when
you're writing an essay it's good to
replace all so it's great it's amazing
it's fascinating when you're replacing
also with something else like
furthermore in addition to moreover
because that makes your speech more
profound
I suggest change there are so many
synonyms to change there is a synonym
adjust can you just my shirt a little
bit so it fits better adjust course
leftenant
so transform this company has completely
transformed the market instead of
changed the market you can transform it
will another word is modified and the
same appeals to change as a noun
adjustment improvement modification and
the last but not the least you love to
say sad he said she said I said and the
new speech is just filled with sad there
is so many were sir please set
especially I remember when I was doing
reported speech exercises at school they
told us to replace said they even forbid
us to use that we were doing those
exercises so you can say claim I claim
that I was complete the project by some
date stated in his speech he stated that
this will take over a year declared he
declared that he would marry her argued
this doesn't mean that he was shouting
at somebody ergun means that he is
providing fats you argued that this
could be much worse suggested explained
so write these words down and the next
time you're talking about somebody
saying something replace the words say
with those words so you have claimed
that was a from me for today guys thank
you so much for being attentive in this
class and thank you for writing things
down and tagging me on instagram and
thank you so much for liking this video
because it was hopefully useful for you
and if you're not yet subscribe to this
channel and if you're learning English
up please don't make this mistake and
subscribe hitting the red button below
and I will see you very soon in my next
videos bye bye